docs(logging): add lib/log conventions (#36164)
sourcegraph/sourcegraph: doc/dev/how-to/add_logging.md

  logs := exportLogs()
}
```

> ## Conventions

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Conventions

```

Author: Fixed

* The name of the scope should follow CamelCase

> * The logger parameter should either be after `ctx context.Context` or be the first parameter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The logger parameter should either be immediately after `ctx context.Context`, or be the first parameter
```

Author: Fixed!

* Messages of log lines should be in lowercase ex. `log.Info("this is my lowercase log line")`

> * Capatalize each word when the log line message is not a sentence and referring to a func/component ex. `logger.Error("component.update"` prefer to capatalize each word

Reviewer: I think we can add a new H2 section, "Writing log messages", before "development usage", dedicated to advice like this!

Author: good point! Moved 👍🏼

> * In a particular scope some fields might be repeatedly emitted. Consider creating a sub Logger in the scope by using `logger.With(...fields)`.

Reviewer: I think we can move this point to https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/how-to/add_logging#handling-loggers , there's a similar point in https://docs.sourcegraph.com/dev/how-to/add_logging#attaching-context (at the very end) - maybe we could have a section called "Sub-loggers"?

Author: Added it!

> ```go
> func (s *Service) MyService(ctx context.Context, logger log.Logger) {
>     subLogger := logger.With(log.Int("id", s.ID), log.String("service", s.Name"))
> 
>     subLogger.Info("starting up")
> 
>     if err := s.Start(); err != nil {
>         subLogger.Error(err)
>     }
> 
>     subLogger.Info("done")
> }
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```go
func (s *Service) MyService(ctx context.Context, logger log.Logger) {
    subLogger := logger.With(log.Int("id", s.ID), log.String("service", s.Name"))

    subLogger.Info("starting up")

    if err := s.Start(); err != nil {
        subLogger.Error(err)
    }

    subLogger.Info("done")
}
```

```

> ```

Reviewer: I can't seem to leave a suggestion here lol but I think you might want to add spaces between the codeblock, docsite (`sg run docsite`) struggles with lack of spacing sometimes

Additionally, in `SRC_DEVELOPMENT=true` using `log.Scoped` without calling `log.Init` will panic (in production, a no-op logger will be returned).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  logs := exportLogs()
}
```

> When writing a test, ensure that `logtest.Scope` in the tightest scope possible. This ensures that if a test fails, that the logging is closely tied to the test that failed. Especially if you testcase has sub tests with `t.Run`, prefer to created the test logger inside `t.Run`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When writing a test, ensure that `logtest.Scope` in the tightest scope possible. This ensures that if a test fails, that the logging is closely tied to the test that failed. Especially if you testcase has sub tests with `t.Run`, prefer to created the test logger inside `t.Run`.
```

## Conventions

* The first scope of the logger should be the name of the service and following the same naming of the service. In general, if the logger is initialized as described in [handling logging](#handling-logging) the name should be correct.
* The logger parameter should either be immediately after `ctx context.Context`, or be the first parameter.

> * In some cases there might already be a `log` module imported. Use the alias `sglog` to refer to `lib/log` as can be seen [here](https://sourcegraph.com/github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/-/blob/cmd/searcher/internal/search/search.go?L35-36).

Reviewer: Wait this is actually a bad example, both of the imports linked point to the same library! 😆

Reviewer: Maybe just provide a concrete example:

```suggestion
* In some cases there might already be a `log` module imported. Use the alias `sglog` to refer to `lib/log`, for example: `import sglog "github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/lib/log"`.
```
